How People with Disabilities Use Digital Technology.
Auditory Disabilities
Auditory disabilities affect how people
hear, including hearing less in one
Auditory Disabilities.
or both ears,
not hearing, and hearing sounds
in a range of different ways.
High-quality sound is important
for many people with reduced hearing.
Audio needs to be clear and background
noise low
to make speech easier to understand.
Websites and apps that allow users
to adjust the volume of the audio
that it is currently playing
without changing the volume for other
sounds from the computer, such
as notifications, make it easier
for people to hear the audio.
Some people with auditory disabilities
use hearing devices but this does
not always mean they can hear all audio,
or hear it clearly.
Websites and apps that do not rely on
audio alone make it easier for people
with different types of auditory
disabilities to perceive the information.
This includes using visual alerts
and haptic feedback,
such as vibration on mobile
phones, in addition to audio.
Another example of
visual alternatives to audio are captions.
Captions provide important audio
information in text format.
They indicate
who is speaking and important sounds,
such as significant
sound effects in a movie.
Many people who use captions need
to adjust the text size,
font, and color
to make the captions more readable.
While automatic captions
are gradually improving,
they are usually too inaccurate
to rely on as an alternative.
For example, they don't
recognise specialized terms well
and the sentences can sometimes
run together,
making it hard to keep up.
While many people
with auditory disabilities
do not use sign language, for many
it is their primary language.
There are many sign languages in different
countries, regions, and cultures.
Sign language is also different
from written and spoken language.
That means people are often
translating between sign language
and written language,
and people’s levels of understanding
of written language can vary.
In order to see sign language
clearly, people rely on high-quality video
transmissions.
This includes needing access to high-speed
internet and devices
that can handle high-quality video.
People with auditory disabilities
also include people who are deaf-blind.
Many people who are deaf-blind
rely on communication that is tactile,
like braille.
Portable braille displays can convert text
on the computer
to braille letters
that can be felt on the fingertips.
And for multimedia, like videos, people
rely on descriptive transcripts.
This is text, such as an article
or script, that contains all the audio
and visual information so that the video
can be understood without watching it.
You can help make technology
accessible to me.
Accessibility: It's about people.
For more information from the Web
Accessibility Initiative
on how people with Disabilities use Digital Technology
visit w3.org/WAI/people